**Ecological conditions favoring species recognition and rapid mate
pairing are associated with greater plumage sexual dichromatism in true
thrushes (genus: *****Turdus*****)**

Alec B. Luro^1\*^ and Mark E. Hauber^1^

^1^Department of Evolution, Ecology and Behavior,

School of Integrative Biology,

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

\*correspondence: <alec.b.luro@gmail.com>

Abstract

Keywords

Background

Methods

Plumage sexual dichromatism

A total of N=77* Turdus* thrush species were sampled for plumage
spectral reflectance using* *from bird skins at the American Museum of
Natural History in New York City and the Field Museum in Chicago.
Reflectance measurements from 300-700nm were taken in triplicate for the
belly, breast, throat, crown and mantle plumage patches
[]{#ADDIN CSL_CITATION {\"citationItems\": [{\"id\": \"ITEM-1\", \"itemData\": {\"ISBN\": \"0674018931\", \"author\": [{\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"Andersson\", \"given\": \"Staffan\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}, {\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"Prager\", \"given\": \"Maria\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}], \"chapter-number\": \"2\", \"container-title\": \"Bird coloration, Volume 1: Mechanisms and Measurements\", \"editor\": [{\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"Hill\", \"given\": \"Geoffrey E.\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}, {\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"McGraw\", \"given\": \"Kevin J.\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}], \"id\": \"ITEM-1\", \"issued\": {\"date-parts\": [[\"2006\"]]}, \"page\": \"76-77\", \"publisher\": \"Harvard University Press\", \"publisher-place\": \"Cambridge, MA\", \"title\": \"Quantifying Colors\", \"type\": \"chapter\"}, \"uris\": [\"http://www.mendeley.com/documents/?uuid=6e3e8981-fc82-46e1-b3b4-15641e174a91\"]}], \"mendeley\": {\"formattedCitation\": \"[1]\", \"plainTextFormattedCitation\": \"[1]\", \"previouslyFormattedCitation\": \"[1]\"}, \"properties\": {\"noteIndex\": 0}, \"schema\": \"https://github.com/citation-style-language/schema/raw/master/csl-citation.json\"} RND71EkQpDIRr}\[1\]⁠
of each individual bird skin. N=3 male and N=3 female individuals were
measured for most species (exceptions: *Turdus lawrencii*, N=2 males and
N=2 females; *Turdus swalesi*, N=1 male and N=1 female). Reflectance
spectra were measured using a 400 μm fiber optic reflection probe fitted
with a rubber stopper to maintain a consistent measuring distance of 3
mm and area of 2 mm^2^ at a 90° angle to the surface of the feather
patch. Measurements were taken using a JAZ spectrometer with a
pulsed-xenon light source (Ocean Optics, Dunedin, USA) and all
measurements were made relative to a diffuse reflectance white standard
(Spectralon WS-1-SL, Labsphere, North Sutton NH, USA).

We used a receptor-noise limited visual model
[]{#ADDIN CSL_CITATION {\"citationItems\": [{\"id\": \"ITEM-1\", \"itemData\": {\"DOI\": \"10.1098/rspb.1998.0302\", \"ISBN\": \"0962-8452\", \"ISSN\": \"0962-8452\", \"PMID\": \"9523436\", \"abstract\": \"Inferences about mechanisms at one particular stage of a visual pathway may be made from psychophysical thresholds only if the noise at the stage in question dominates that in the others. Spectral sensitivities, measured under bright conditions, for di-, tri-, and tetrachromatic eyes from a range of animals can be modelled by assuming that thresholds are set by colour opponency mechanisms whose performance is limited by photoreceptor noise, the achromatic signal being disregarded. Noise in the opponency channels themselves is therefore not statistically independent, and it is not possible to infer anything more about the channels from psychophysical thresholds. As well as giving insight into mechanisms of vision, the model predicts the performance of colour vision in animals where physiological and anatomical data on the eye are available, but there are no direct measurements of perceptual thresholds. The model, therefore, is widely applicable to comparative studies of eye design and visual ecology.\", \"author\": [{\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"Vorobyev\", \"given\": \"Misha\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}, {\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"Osorio\", \"given\": \"D\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}], \"container-title\": \"Proceedings. Biological sciences / The Royal Society\", \"id\": \"ITEM-1\", \"issue\": \"1394\", \"issued\": {\"date-parts\": [[\"1998\"]]}, \"page\": \"351-8\", \"title\": \"Receptor noise as a determinant of colour thresholds.\", \"type\": \"article-journal\", \"volume\": \"265\"}, \"uris\": [\"http://www.mendeley.com/documents/?uuid=e380441f-0466-39d4-85b5-a94c81d27457\"]}], \"mendeley\": {\"formattedCitation\": \"[2]\", \"plainTextFormattedCitation\": \"[2]\", \"previouslyFormattedCitation\": \"[2]\"}, \"properties\": {\"noteIndex\": 0}, \"schema\": \"https://github.com/citation-style-language/schema/raw/master/csl-citation.json\"} RNDYCLfHLYGLT}\[2\]
of the European Blackbird (*Turdus merula*) visual system
[]{#ADDIN CSL_CITATION {\"citationItems\": [{\"id\": \"ITEM-1\", \"itemData\": {\"DOI\": \"10.1007/s003590050437\", \"ISBN\": \"0340-7594\", \"ISSN\": \"0340-7594\", \"PMID\": \"10798725\", \"abstract\": \"The spectral absorption characteristics of the retinal photoreceptors of the blue tit (Parus caeruleus) and blackbird (Turdus merula) were investigated using microspectrophotometry. The retinae of both species contained rods, double cones and four spectrally distinct types of single cone. Whilst the visual pigments and cone oil droplets in the other receptor types are very similar in both species, the wavelength of maximum sensitivity (lambda(max)) of long-wavelength-sensitive single and double cone visual pigment occurs at a shorter wavelength (557 nm) in the blackbird than in the blue tit (563 nm). Oil droplets located in the long-wavelength-sensitive-single cones of both species cut off wavelengths below 570-573 nm, theoretically shifting cone peak spectral sensitivity some 40 nm towards the long-wavelength end of the spectrum. This raises the possibility that the precise lambda(max) of the long-wavelength-sensitive visual pigment is optimised for the visual function of the double cones. The distribution of cone photoreceptors across the retina, determined using conventional light and fluorescence microscopy, also varies between the two species and may reflect differences in their visual ecology.\", \"author\": [{\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"Hart\", \"given\": \"N. S.\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}, {\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"Partridge\", \"given\": \"J. C.\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}, {\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"Cuthill\", \"given\": \"I. C.\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}, {\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"Bennett\", \"given\": \"A.T.\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}], \"container-title\": \"Journal of comparative physiology. A, Sensory, neural, and behavioral physiology\", \"id\": \"ITEM-1\", \"issue\": \"4\", \"issued\": {\"date-parts\": [[\"2000\", \"4\", \"25\"]]}, \"page\": \"375-387\", \"publisher\": \"Springer-Verlag\", \"title\": \"Visual pigments, oil droplets, ocular media and cone photoreceptor distribution in two species of passerine bird: the blue tit (Parus caeruleus L.) and the blackbird (Turdus merula L.).\", \"type\": \"article-journal\", \"volume\": \"186\"}, \"uris\": [\"http://www.mendeley.com/documents/?uuid=ed84b46c-a351-31ac-9064-e7f881129c2d\"]}], \"mendeley\": {\"formattedCitation\": \"[3]\", \"plainTextFormattedCitation\": \"[3]\", \"previouslyFormattedCitation\": \"[3]\"}, \"properties\": {\"noteIndex\": 0}, \"schema\": \"https://github.com/citation-style-language/schema/raw/master/csl-citation.json\"} RNDL91xuOabpE}\[3\]
in the *pavo
*[]{#ADDIN CSL_CITATION {\"citationItems\": [{\"id\": \"ITEM-1\", \"itemData\": {\"DOI\": \"10.1111/2041-210X.13174\", \"ISSN\": \"2041210X\", \"abstract\": \"Biological coloration presents a canvas for the study of ecological and evolutionary processes. Enduring interest in colour-based phenotypes has driven, and been driven by, improved techniques for quantifying colour patterns in ever-more relevant ways, yet the need for flexible, open frameworks for data processing and analysis persists. Here we introduce pavo 2, the latest iteration of the r package pavo. This release represents the extensive refinement and expansion of existing methods, as well as a suite of new tools for the cohesive analysis of the spectral and (now) spatial structure of colour patterns and perception. At its core, the package retains a broad focus on (a) the organization and processing of spectral and spatial data, and tools for the alternating (b) visualization, and (c) analysis of data. Significantly, pavo 2 introduces image-analysis capabilities, providing a cohesive workflow for the comprehensive analysis of colour patterns. We demonstrate the utility of pavo with a brief example centred on mimicry in Heliconius butterflies. Drawing on visual modelling, adjacency, and boundary strength analyses, we show that the combined spectral (colour and luminance) and spatial (pattern element distribution and boundary salience) features of putative models and mimics are closely aligned. pavo 2 offers a flexible and reproducible environment for the analysis of colour, with renewed potential to assist researchers in answering fundamental questions in sensory ecology and evolution.\", \"author\": [{\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"Maia\", \"given\": \"Rafael\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}, {\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"Gruson\", \"given\": \"Hugo\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}, {\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"Endler\", \"given\": \"John A.\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}, {\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"White\", \"given\": \"Thomas E.\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}], \"container-title\": \"Methods in Ecology and Evolution\", \"editor\": [{\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"O\\u2019Hara\", \"given\": \"Robert B.\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}], \"id\": \"ITEM-1\", \"issue\": \"7\", \"issued\": {\"date-parts\": [[\"2019\", \"7\", \"8\"]]}, \"page\": \"1097-1107\", \"title\": \"pavo 2: New tools for the spectral and spatial analysis of colour in r\", \"type\": \"article-journal\", \"volume\": \"10\"}, \"uris\": [\"http://www.mendeley.com/documents/?uuid=9398d8ad-5685-3d34-a0a3-1bbf948cd603\"]}], \"mendeley\": {\"formattedCitation\": \"[4]\", \"plainTextFormattedCitation\": \"[4]\", \"previouslyFormattedCitation\": \"[4]\"}, \"properties\": {\"noteIndex\": 0}, \"schema\": \"https://github.com/citation-style-language/schema/raw/master/csl-citation.json\"} RNDkIJdqkzvYW}*\[4\]*⁠
* *package in R v4.0.0
[]{#ADDIN CSL_CITATION {\"citationItems\": [{\"id\": \"ITEM-1\", \"itemData\": {\"author\": [{\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"R Core Team\", \"given\": \"\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}], \"id\": \"ITEM-1\", \"issued\": {\"date-parts\": [[\"2020\"]]}, \"publisher-place\": \"Vienna, Austria\", \"title\": \"R: A Language and Environment for Statistical Computing\", \"type\": \"article\"}, \"uris\": [\"http://www.mendeley.com/documents/?uuid=4bda6f0a-0d6f-4596-9fcc-0d5687d97a75\"]}], \"mendeley\": {\"formattedCitation\": \"[5]\", \"plainTextFormattedCitation\": \"[5]\", \"previouslyFormattedCitation\": \"[5]\"}, \"properties\": {\"noteIndex\": 0}, \"schema\": \"https://github.com/citation-style-language/schema/raw/master/csl-citation.json\"} RNDCSHfqIQu3n}\[5\]⁠
to calculate avian-perceived chromatic and achromatic visual contrast
(in units of "Just-Noticeable Differences", or JNDs) of male vs. female
plumage patches for all sampled *Turdus *species. Chromatic and
achromatic JNDs were calculated for male-female pairs within each
species (i.e., N=9 JND values calculated per patch for each species
where N=3 males and N=3 females sampled), and then JND values were
averaged for each species' respective plumage patches. Under ideal
laboratory conditions, a JND value of 1 is generally considered to be
the discriminable threshold past which an observer is predicted to be
able to perceive the two colors as different. However, natural light
environments vary both spatially and temporally
[]{#ADDIN CSL_CITATION {\"citationItems\": [{\"id\": \"ITEM-1\", \"itemData\": {\"DOI\": \"10.2307/2937121\", \"ISBN\": \"00129615\", \"ISSN\": \"0012-9615\", \"abstract\": \"Forests exhibit much variation in light environments, and this can affect communication among animals, communication between animals and plants, photosynthesis, and plant morphogenesis. Light environments are caused by, and can be predicted from, the geometry of the light paths, the weather conditions, and the time of day. The structure of forests leads to four major light habitats when the sun is not blocked by clouds: forest shade, woodland shade, small gaps, and large gaps. These are characterized by yellow-green, blue-gray, reddish, and @'white@' ambient light spectra, respectively. When the sun is blocked by clouds, the spectra of these four habitats converge on that of large gaps and open areas, so the single light environment during cloudy weather will be called open/cloudy. An additional light environment (early/late) is associated with low sun angles (near dawn or dusk); it is purplish. Each light environment is well defined and was found in forests of Trinidad, Panama, Costa Rica, Australia, California, and Florida. Scattered literature references suggest similar patterns elsewhere in North America, Europe, and Java. Perceived colors of animals, flowers, and fruits depend upon the interaction between ambient light color and the reflectance color of the animal or plant parts. As a result, an animal or plant may have a different appearance in each environment, i.e., a color pattern may be relatively cryptic in some light environments while relatively conspicuous in others. This has strong implications for the joint evolution of visual signals and vision, as well as microhabitat choice. Plant growth and form may also be affected by variation in the color of forest light.\", \"author\": [{\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"Endler\", \"given\": \"John A.\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}, {\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"Monographs\", \"given\": \"Ecological\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}, {\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"Feb\", \"given\": \"No\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}], \"container-title\": \"Ecological Monographs\", \"id\": \"ITEM-1\", \"issue\": \"1\", \"issued\": {\"date-parts\": [[\"1993\", \"2\"]]}, \"page\": \"1-27\", \"publisher\": \"Ecological Society of America\", \"title\": \"The Color of Light in Forests and Its Implications\", \"type\": \"article-journal\", \"volume\": \"63\"}, \"uris\": [\"http://www.mendeley.com/documents/?uuid=c032a5fd-048e-4cf9-b91c-338830897112\"]}], \"mendeley\": {\"formattedCitation\": \"[6]\", \"plainTextFormattedCitation\": \"[6]\", \"previouslyFormattedCitation\": \"[6]\"}, \"properties\": {\"noteIndex\": 0}, \"schema\": \"https://github.com/citation-style-language/schema/raw/master/csl-citation.json\"} RND2jVleZ8GBD}\[6\]⁠,
bringing into question the accuracy of a JND=1 threshold for
generalizing visual contrast under natural conditions. Therefore, we
calculated the total number of sexually-dichromatic plumage patches per
species (out of N=5 measured patches) as the number of plumage patches
with average JND values \> 1, 2, or 3 to account for uncertainty in
visual discrimination thresholds due to variation in psychophysical and
ambient lighting conditions affecting the strength of between-sex
plumage visual contrast
[]{#ADDIN CSL_CITATION {\"citationItems\": [{\"id\": \"ITEM-1\", \"itemData\": {\"DOI\": \"10.1086/681021\", \"ISBN\": \"00030147\", \"ISSN\": \"0003-0147\", \"PMID\": \"25996857\", \"abstract\": \"The world in color presents a dazzling dimension of phenotypic variation. Biological interest in this variation has burgeoned, due to both increased means for quantifying spectral information and heightened appreciation for how animals view the world differently than humans. Effective study of color traits is challenged by how to best quantify visual perception in nonhuman species. This requires consideration of at least visual physiology but ultimately also the neural processes underlying perception. Our knowledge of color perception is founded largely on the principles gained from human psychophysics that have proven generalizable based on comparative studies in select animal models. Appreciation of these principles, their empirical foundation, and the reasonable limits to their applicability is crucial to reaching informed conclusions in color research. In this article, we seek a common intellectual basis for the study of color in nature. We first discuss the key perceptual principles, namely, retinal photoreception, sensory channels, opponent processing, color constancy, and receptor noise. We then draw on this basis to inform an analytical framework driven by the research question in relation to identifiable viewers and visual tasks of interest. Consideration of the limits to perceptual inference guides two primary decisions: first, whether a sensory-based approach is necessary and justified and, second, whether the visual task refers to perceptual distance or discriminability. We outline informed approaches in each situation and discuss key challenges for future progress, focusing particularly on how animals perceive color. Given that animal behavior serves as both the basic unit of psychophysics and the ultimate driver of color ecology/evolution, behavioral data are critical to reconciling knowledge across the schools of color research.\", \"author\": [{\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"Kemp\", \"given\": \"Darrell J\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}, {\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"Herberstein\", \"given\": \"Marie E\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}, {\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"Fleishman\", \"given\": \"Leo J\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}, {\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"Endler\", \"given\": \"John A\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}, {\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"Bennett\", \"given\": \"Andrew T D\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}, {\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"Dyer\", \"given\": \"Adrian G\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}, {\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"Hart\", \"given\": \"Nathan S\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}, {\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"Marshall\", \"given\": \"Justin\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}, {\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"Whiting\", \"given\": \"Martin J\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}], \"container-title\": \"The American Naturalist\", \"id\": \"ITEM-1\", \"issue\": \"6\", \"issued\": {\"date-parts\": [[\"2015\", \"6\", \"15\"]]}, \"page\": \"705-724\", \"publisher\": \"University of Chicago PressChicago, IL\", \"title\": \"An Integrative Framework for the Appraisal of Coloration in Nature\", \"type\": \"article-journal\", \"volume\": \"185\"}, \"uris\": [\"http://www.mendeley.com/documents/?uuid=18367700-eb9e-4371-9387-a5df45ccfead\"]}], \"mendeley\": {\"formattedCitation\": \"[7]\", \"plainTextFormattedCitation\": \"[7]\", \"previouslyFormattedCitation\": \"[7]\"}, \"properties\": {\"noteIndex\": 0}, \"schema\": \"https://github.com/citation-style-language/schema/raw/master/csl-citation.json\"} RNDQ1beKpZlta}\[7\]⁠.

Life History Data

Breeding Timing Model

We collected data on migration behavior and breeding season length from
*Thrushes*
[]{#ADDIN CSL_CITATION {\"citationItems\": [{\"id\": \"ITEM-1\", \"itemData\": {\"ISBN\": \"9780713639407\", \"author\": [{\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"Clement\", \"given\": \"Peter\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}, {\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"Hathway\", \"given\": \"Ren\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}], \"id\": \"ITEM-1\", \"issued\": {\"date-parts\": [[\"2000\"]]}, \"publisher\": \"A&C Black Publishers Ltd\", \"publisher-place\": \"London\", \"title\": \"Thrushes\", \"type\": \"book\"}, \"uris\": [\"http://www.mendeley.com/documents/?uuid=7ca4dcdb-b2c6-4c3f-951c-f81b4dc45a49\"]}], \"mendeley\": {\"formattedCitation\": \"[8]\", \"plainTextFormattedCitation\": \"[8]\", \"previouslyFormattedCitation\": \"[8]\"}, \"properties\": {\"noteIndex\": 0}, \"schema\": \"https://github.com/citation-style-language/schema/raw/master/csl-citation.json\"} RNDQOaHTuimJa}\[8\]⁠
and the *Handbook of the Birds of the World*
[]{#ADDIN CSL_CITATION {\"citationItems\": [{\"id\": \"ITEM-1\", \"itemData\": {\"ISBN\": \"84-87334-10-5\", \"abstract\": \"del Hoyo, J., Elliott, A., Sargatal, J., Christie, D.A. de Juana, E. (eds.) (2013). Handbook of the Birds of the World Alive. Lynx Edicions, Barcelona.\", \"author\": [{\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"Hoyo\", \"given\": \"J.\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"del\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}, {\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"Elliott\", \"given\": \"A.\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}, {\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"Sargatal\", \"given\": \"J.\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}, {\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"Christie\", \"given\": \"D.A.\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}, {\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"Juana\", \"given\": \"E.\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"de\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}], \"container-title\": \"Handbook of the Birds of the World Alive\", \"id\": \"ITEM-1\", \"issued\": {\"date-parts\": [[\"2017\"]]}, \"title\": \"Handbook of the birds of the world alive\", \"type\": \"webpage\"}, \"uris\": [\"http://www.mendeley.com/documents/?uuid=f3c20fc9-35ad-4dd5-a8d5-6190ab8f659f\"]}], \"mendeley\": {\"formattedCitation\": \"[9]\", \"plainTextFormattedCitation\": \"[9]\", \"previouslyFormattedCitation\": \"[9]\"}, \"properties\": {\"noteIndex\": 0}, \"schema\": \"https://github.com/citation-style-language/schema/raw/master/csl-citation.json\"} RNDCcmQAwYiQX}\[9\]⁠.
We assigned three different kinds of migratory behavior: 1) *full
migration *when a species description clearly stated that a species
\"migrates\", 2) *partial migration *when a species was described to
have \"altitudinal migration\", \"latitudinal migration\" or \"movement
during non-breeding season\", or 3) *sedentary* when when a species was
described as \"resident\" or \"sedentary\". Breeding season length was
defined as the number of months the species breeds.

Breeding Sympatry Model

Species' breeding ranges were acquired from *BirdLife International*
[]{#ADDIN CSL_CITATION {\"citationItems\": [{\"id\": \"ITEM-1\", \"itemData\": {\"URL\": \"http://datazone.birdlife.org/species/requestdis\", \"author\": [{\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"BirdLife International and Handbook of the Birds of the World\", \"given\": \"\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}], \"id\": \"ITEM-1\", \"issued\": {\"date-parts\": [[\"2018\"]]}, \"title\": \"Bird species distribution maps of the world. Version 2018.1.\", \"type\": \"webpage\"}, \"uris\": [\"http://www.mendeley.com/documents/?uuid=a1e8e512-b237-44da-b722-c43d0d5aa294\"]}], \"mendeley\": {\"formattedCitation\": \"[10]\", \"plainTextFormattedCitation\": \"[10]\", \"previouslyFormattedCitation\": \"[10]\"}, \"properties\": {\"noteIndex\": 0}, \"schema\": \"https://github.com/citation-style-language/schema/raw/master/csl-citation.json\"} RNDi7AKgbPTyA}\[10\]⁠.
We calculated congener breeding range overlaps (as percentages) using
the *letsR* package in R
[]{#ADDIN CSL_CITATION {\"citationItems\": [{\"id\": \"ITEM-1\", \"itemData\": {\"DOI\": \"https://doi.org/10.1111/2041-210X.12401\", \"abstract\": \"Summary The current availability of large ecological data sets and the computational capacity to handle them have fostered the testing and development of theory at broad spatial and temporal scales. Macroecology has particularly benefited from this era of big data, but tools are still required to help transforming this data into information and knowledge. Here, we present \\u2018letsR\\u2019, a package for the R statistical computing environment, designed to handle and analyse macroecological data such as species\\u2019 geographic distributions (polygons in shapefile format and point occurrences) and environmental variables (in raster format). The package also includes functions to obtain data on species\\u2019 habitat use, description year and current as well as temporal trends in conservation status as provided by the IUCN RedList online data base. \\u2018letsR\\u2019 main functionalities are based on the presence\\u2013absence matrices that can be created with the package's functions and from which other functions can be applied to generate, for example species richness rasters, geographic mid-points of species and species- and site-based attributes. We exemplify the package's functionality by describing and evaluating the geographic pattern of species\\u2019 description year in tailless amphibians. All data preparation and most analyses were made using the \\u2018letsR\\u2019 functions. Our example illustrates the package's capability for conducting macroecological analyses under a single computer platform, potentially helping researchers to save time and effort in this endeavour.\", \"author\": [{\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"Vilela\", \"given\": \"Bruno\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}, {\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"Villalobos\", \"given\": \"Fabricio\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}], \"container-title\": \"Methods in Ecology and Evolution\", \"id\": \"ITEM-1\", \"issue\": \"10\", \"issued\": {\"date-parts\": [[\"2015\"]]}, \"page\": \"1229-1234\", \"title\": \"letsR: a new R package for data handling and analysis in macroecology\", \"type\": \"article-journal\", \"volume\": \"6\"}, \"uris\": [\"http://www.mendeley.com/documents/?uuid=8e45ffba-9a6a-435f-b0f2-f89f9ff657d9\"]}], \"mendeley\": {\"formattedCitation\": \"[11]\", \"plainTextFormattedCitation\": \"[11]\", \"previouslyFormattedCitation\": \"[11]\"}, \"properties\": {\"noteIndex\": 0}, \"schema\": \"https://github.com/citation-style-language/schema/raw/master/csl-citation.json\"} RNDjt62Aq47mr}\[11\]⁠.
We then calculated the number of sympatric species as the number of
congeners with breeding ranges that overlap \>30% with the focal
species' breeding range
[]{#ADDIN CSL_CITATION {\"citationItems\": [{\"id\": \"ITEM-1\", \"itemData\": {\"DOI\": \"10.1111/ele.12780\", \"ISSN\": \"14610248\", \"PMID\": \"28513066\", \"abstract\": \"The role of sexual selection as a driver of speciation remains unresolved, not least because we lack a clear empirical understanding of its influence on different phases of the speciation process. Here, using data from 1306 recent avian speciation events, we show that plumage dichromatism (a proxy for sexual selection) does not predict diversification rates, but instead explains the rate at which young lineages achieve geographical range overlap. Importantly, this effect is only significant when range overlap is narrow (< 20%). These findings are consistent with a \\u2018differential fusion\\u2019 model wherein sexual selection reduces rates of fusion among lineages undergoing secondary contact, facilitating parapatry or limited co-existence, whereas more extensive sympatry is contingent on additional factors such as ecological differentiation. Our results provide a more mechanistic explanation for why sexual selection appears to drive early stages of speciation while playing a seemingly limited role in determining broad-scale patterns of diversification.\", \"author\": [{\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"Cooney\", \"given\": \"Christopher R.\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}, {\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"Tobias\", \"given\": \"Joseph A.\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}, {\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"Weir\", \"given\": \"Jason T.\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}, {\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"Botero\", \"given\": \"Carlos A.\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}, {\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"Seddon\", \"given\": \"Nathalie\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}], \"container-title\": \"Ecology Letters\", \"editor\": [{\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"Westneat\", \"given\": \"David\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}], \"id\": \"ITEM-1\", \"issue\": \"7\", \"issued\": {\"date-parts\": [[\"2017\", \"7\", \"1\"]]}, \"page\": \"863-871\", \"publisher\": \"Blackwell Publishing Ltd\", \"title\": \"Sexual selection, speciation and constraints on geographical range overlap in birds\", \"type\": \"article-journal\", \"volume\": \"20\"}, \"uris\": [\"http://www.mendeley.com/documents/?uuid=5956dcf7-bd32-379a-b2c7-cc84565af6af\"]}], \"mendeley\": {\"formattedCitation\": \"[12]\", \"plainTextFormattedCitation\": \"[12]\", \"previouslyFormattedCitation\": \"[12]\"}, \"properties\": {\"noteIndex\": 0}, \"schema\": \"https://github.com/citation-style-language/schema/raw/master/csl-citation.json\"} RNDKMQTC7bqVb}\[12\].

***Breeding Spacing**** Model***

Species' breeding range sizes (in km^2^) were acquired using the
*BirdLife International * breeding range maps. Species' island vs.
mainland residence was also determined using breeding ranges from
*BirdLife International*. Mainland residence was assigned if the species
had a breeding range on any continent and Japan. Island residence was
assigned to species having a breeding range limited to a non-continental
landmass entirely surrounded by an oceanic body of water.

***S****tatistical Modeling***

We used phylogenetically-corrected Bayesian multilevel logistic
regression models using the* brms* v2.13.0 package
[]{#ADDIN CSL_CITATION {\"citationItems\": [{\"id\": \"ITEM-1\", \"itemData\": {\"DOI\": \"10.18637/jss.v080.i01\", \"ISSN\": \"15487660\", \"abstract\": \"The brms package implements Bayesian multilevel models in R using the probabilistic programming language Stan. A wide range of distributions and link functions are supported, allowing users to fit \\u2013 among others \\u2013 linear, robust linear, binomial, Poisson, survival, ordinal, zero-inflated, hurdle, and even non-linear models all in a multilevel context. Further modeling options include autocorrelation of the response variable, user defined covariance structures, censored data, as well as meta-analytic standard errors. Prior specifications are flexible and explicitly encourage users to apply prior distributions that actually reflect their beliefs. In addition, model fit can easily be assessed and compared with the Watanabe-Akaike information criterion and leave-one-out cross-validation.\", \"author\": [{\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"B\\u00fcrkner\", \"given\": \"Paul Christian\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}], \"container-title\": \"Journal of Statistical Software\", \"id\": \"ITEM-1\", \"issue\": \"1\", \"issued\": {\"date-parts\": [[\"2017\"]]}, \"page\": \"1-28\", \"publisher\": \"American Statistical Association\", \"title\": \"brms: An R package for Bayesian multilevel models using Stan\", \"type\": \"article-journal\", \"volume\": \"80\"}, \"uris\": [\"http://www.mendeley.com/documents/?uuid=cf936774-c309-339c-ba9d-2597b2b3c165\"]}], \"mendeley\": {\"formattedCitation\": \"[13]\", \"plainTextFormattedCitation\": \"[13]\", \"previouslyFormattedCitation\": \"[13]\"}, \"properties\": {\"noteIndex\": 0}, \"schema\": \"https://github.com/citation-style-language/schema/raw/master/csl-citation.json\"} RNDPZRkaYvFu0}\[13\]⁠
in R v4.0.0
[]{#ADDIN CSL_CITATION {\"citationItems\": [{\"id\": \"ITEM-1\", \"itemData\": {\"author\": [{\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"R Core Team\", \"given\": \"\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}], \"id\": \"ITEM-1\", \"issued\": {\"date-parts\": [[\"2020\"]]}, \"publisher-place\": \"Vienna, Austria\", \"title\": \"R: A Language and Environment for Statistical Computing\", \"type\": \"article\"}, \"uris\": [\"http://www.mendeley.com/documents/?uuid=4bda6f0a-0d6f-4596-9fcc-0d5687d97a75\"]}], \"mendeley\": {\"formattedCitation\": \"[5]\", \"plainTextFormattedCitation\": \"[5]\", \"previouslyFormattedCitation\": \"[5]\"}, \"properties\": {\"noteIndex\": 0}, \"schema\": \"https://github.com/citation-style-language/schema/raw/master/csl-citation.json\"} RNDbLzQc4pyoa}\[5\]⁠
where responses, the number of sexually-dichromatic patches \>1, 2, and
3 chromatic and achromatic JNDs, were modeled as binomial trials (N=5
plumage patch "trials") to test for associations with breeding timing,
breeding sympatry and breeding spacing. For all
phylogenetically-corrected models, we used the *Turdus* phylogeny from
Nylander et al. (2008)
[]{#ADDIN CSL_CITATION {\"citationItems\": [{\"id\": \"ITEM-1\", \"itemData\": {\"DOI\": \"10.1080/10635150802044003\", \"ISSN\": \"10635157\", \"PMID\": \"18425716\", \"abstract\": \"The phylogeny of the thrushes (Aves: Turdus) has been difficult to reconstruct due to short internal branches and lack of node support for certain parts of the tree. Reconstructing the biogeographic history of this group is further complicated by the fact that current implementations of biogeographic methods, such as dispersal-vicariance analysis (DIVA; Ronquist, 1997), require a fully resolved tree. Here, we apply a Bayesian approach to dispersal-vicariance analysis that accounts for phylogenetic uncertainty and allows amore accurate analysis of the biogeographic history of lineages. Specifically, ancestral area reconstructions can be presented as marginal distributions, thus displaying the underlying topological uncertainty. Moreover, if there are multiple optimal solutions for a single node on a certain tree, integrating over the posterior distribution of trees often reveals a preference for a narrower set of solutions.Wefindthat despite the uncertainty in tree topology, ancestral area reconstructions indicate that the Turdus clade originated in the eastern Palearctic during the Late Miocene. This was followed by an early dispersal to Africa from where a worldwide radiation took place. The uncertainty in tree topology and short branch lengths seems to indicate that this radiation took place within a limited time span during the Late Pliocene. The results support the role of Africa as a probable source area for intercontinental dispersals as suggested for other passerine groups, including basal diversification within the songbird tree. Copyright \\u00a9 Society of Systematic Biologists.\", \"author\": [{\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"Nylander\", \"given\": \"Johan A.A.\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}, {\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"Olsson\", \"given\": \"Urban\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}, {\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"Alstr\\u00f6m\", \"given\": \"Per\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}, {\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"Sanmart\\u00edn\", \"given\": \"Isabel\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}], \"container-title\": \"Systematic Biology\", \"id\": \"ITEM-1\", \"issue\": \"2\", \"issued\": {\"date-parts\": [[\"2008\"]]}, \"page\": \"257-268\", \"title\": \"Accounting for phylogenetic uncertainty in biogeography: A bayesian approach to dispersal-vicariance analysis of the thrushes (Aves: Turdus)\", \"type\": \"article-journal\", \"volume\": \"57\"}, \"uris\": [\"http://www.mendeley.com/documents/?uuid=5d08dd9a-d87f-3220-a4e6-11cc656f680a\"]}], \"mendeley\": {\"formattedCitation\": \"[14]\", \"plainTextFormattedCitation\": \"[14]\", \"previouslyFormattedCitation\": \"[14]\"}, \"properties\": {\"noteIndex\": 0}, \"schema\": \"https://github.com/citation-style-language/schema/raw/master/csl-citation.json\"} RNDZF65Tfbxwo}\[14\]
to create a covariance matrix of species' phylogenetic relationships.
All models used a dataset of N=67 *Turdus *species for which all data
were available.

Our *breeding timing* models included the following predictors: z-scores
of breeding season length (mean centered and divided by one standard
deviation), migratory behavior (full migration as the reference category
versus partial migration or sedentary), and their interaction. *Breeding
sympatry* models included the number of sympatric species with greater
than 30% breeding range overlap as the only predictor of the number of
sexually-dichromatic plumage patches. *Breeding spacing* models included
log~e~ transformed breeding range size (km^2^) and breeding landmass
(mainland as the reference category versus island). We also ran null
models (intercept only) for all responses. All models' intercepts and
response standard deviations were assigned a weak prior (Student T: df =
3, location = 0, scale = 10), and predictor coefficients were assigned
flat priors. We ran each model for 6,000 iterations across 6 chains and
assessed Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) convergence using the
Gelman-Rubin diagnostic (Rhat)
[]{#ADDIN CSL_CITATION {\"citationItems\": [{\"id\": \"ITEM-1\", \"itemData\": {\"DOI\": \"10.1201/b16018\", \"ISBN\": \"9781439898208\", \"abstract\": \"Broadening its scope to nonstatisticians, Bayesian Methods for Data Analysis, Third Edition provides an accessible introduction to the foundations and applications of Bayesian analysis. Along with a complete reorganization of the material, this edition concentrates more on hierarchical Bayesian modeling as implemented via Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) methods and related data analytic techniques. New to the Third Edition \\u2022 New data examples, corresponding R and WinBUGS code, and homework problems \\u2022 Explicit descriptions and illustrations of hierarchical modeling-now commonplace in Bayesian data analysis \\u2022 A new chapter on Bayesian design that emphasizes Bayesian clinical trials \\u2022 A completely revised and expanded section on ranking and histogram estimation \\u2022 A new case study on infectious disease modeling and the 1918 flu epidemic \\u2022 A solutions manual for qualifying instructors that contains solutions, computer code, and associated output for every homework problem-available both electronically and in print Ideal for Anyone Performing Statistical Analyses Focusing on applications from biostatistics, epidemiology, and medicine, this text builds on the popularity of its predecessors by making it suitable for even more practitioners and students.\", \"author\": [{\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"Gelman\", \"given\": \"Andrew\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}, {\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"Carlin\", \"given\": \"John B.\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}, {\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"Stern\", \"given\": \"Hal S.\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}, {\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"Dunson\", \"given\": \"David B.\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}, {\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"Vehtari\", \"given\": \"Aki\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}, {\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"Rubin\", \"given\": \"Donald B.\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}], \"container-title\": \"Bayesian Data Analysis, Third Edition\", \"edition\": \"3\", \"id\": \"ITEM-1\", \"issued\": {\"date-parts\": [[\"2013\"]]}, \"publisher\": \"CRC Press\", \"publisher-place\": \"Boca Raton, FL\", \"title\": \"Bayesian data analysis, third edition\", \"type\": \"book\"}, \"uris\": [\"http://www.mendeley.com/documents/?uuid=d3c4257c-974c-428b-96f3-d57ead71255c\"]}], \"mendeley\": {\"formattedCitation\": \"[15]\", \"plainTextFormattedCitation\": \"[15]\", \"previouslyFormattedCitation\": \"[15]\"}, \"properties\": {\"noteIndex\": 0}, \"schema\": \"https://github.com/citation-style-language/schema/raw/master/csl-citation.json\"} RNDCMnEKF9fk3}\[15\].
We then performed k-fold cross-validation
[]{#ADDIN CSL_CITATION {\"citationItems\": [{\"id\": \"ITEM-1\", \"itemData\": {\"DOI\": \"10.1007/s11222-016-9696-4\", \"ISSN\": \"0960-3174\", \"abstract\": \"Leave-one-out cross-validation (LOO) and the widely applicable information criterion (WAIC) are methods for estimating pointwise out-of-sample prediction accuracy from a fitted Bayesian model using the log-likelihood evaluated at the posterior simulations of the parameter values. LOO and WAIC have various advantages over simpler estimates of predictive error such as AIC and DIC but are less used in practice because they involve additional computational steps. Here we lay out fast and stable computations for LOO and WAIC that can be performed using existing simulation draws. We introduce an efficient computation of LOO using Pareto-smoothed importance sampling (PSIS), a new procedure for regularizing importance weights. Although WAIC is asymptotically equal to LOO, we demonstrate that PSIS-LOO is more robust in the finite case with weak priors or influential observations. As a byproduct of our calculations, we also obtain approximate standard errors for estimated predictive errors and for comparison of predictive errors between two models. We implement the computations in an R package called loo and demonstrate using models fit with the Bayesian inference package Stan.\", \"author\": [{\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"Vehtari\", \"given\": \"Aki\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}, {\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"Gelman\", \"given\": \"Andrew\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}, {\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"Gabry\", \"given\": \"Jonah\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}], \"container-title\": \"Statistics and Computing\", \"id\": \"ITEM-1\", \"issue\": \"5\", \"issued\": {\"date-parts\": [[\"2017\", \"9\", \"30\"]]}, \"page\": \"1413-1432\", \"publisher\": \"Springer New York LLC\", \"title\": \"Practical Bayesian model evaluation using leave-one-out cross-validation and WAIC\", \"type\": \"article-journal\", \"volume\": \"27\"}, \"uris\": [\"http://www.mendeley.com/documents/?uuid=da705bf2-2164-3812-ad33-bea47400886c\"]}], \"mendeley\": {\"formattedCitation\": \"[16]\", \"plainTextFormattedCitation\": \"[16]\", \"previouslyFormattedCitation\": \"[16]\"}, \"properties\": {\"noteIndex\": 0}, \"schema\": \"https://github.com/citation-style-language/schema/raw/master/csl-citation.json\"} RNDX0y6vEGcyx}\[16\]
to refit each model *K*=16 times. For each k-fold, the training dataset
included a randomly selected set ofor N≈63 species, and the testing
dataset included or N≈4 species not included in the training dataset.
Finally, we compared differences between the models' expected log
pointwise predictive densities (ELPD) to assess which model(s) best
predicted the number of sexually-dichromatic plumage patches
[]{#ADDIN CSL_CITATION {\"citationItems\": [{\"id\": \"ITEM-1\", \"itemData\": {\"DOI\": \"10.1007/s11222-016-9696-4\", \"ISSN\": \"0960-3174\", \"abstract\": \"Leave-one-out cross-validation (LOO) and the widely applicable information criterion (WAIC) are methods for estimating pointwise out-of-sample prediction accuracy from a fitted Bayesian model using the log-likelihood evaluated at the posterior simulations of the parameter values. LOO and WAIC have various advantages over simpler estimates of predictive error such as AIC and DIC but are less used in practice because they involve additional computational steps. Here we lay out fast and stable computations for LOO and WAIC that can be performed using existing simulation draws. We introduce an efficient computation of LOO using Pareto-smoothed importance sampling (PSIS), a new procedure for regularizing importance weights. Although WAIC is asymptotically equal to LOO, we demonstrate that PSIS-LOO is more robust in the finite case with weak priors or influential observations. As a byproduct of our calculations, we also obtain approximate standard errors for estimated predictive errors and for comparison of predictive errors between two models. We implement the computations in an R package called loo and demonstrate using models fit with the Bayesian inference package Stan.\", \"author\": [{\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"Vehtari\", \"given\": \"Aki\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}, {\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"Gelman\", \"given\": \"Andrew\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}, {\"dropping-particle\": \"\", \"family\": \"Gabry\", \"given\": \"Jonah\", \"non-dropping-particle\": \"\", \"parse-names\": false, \"suffix\": \"\"}], \"container-title\": \"Statistics and Computing\", \"id\": \"ITEM-1\", \"issue\": \"5\", \"issued\": {\"date-parts\": [[\"2017\", \"9\", \"30\"]]}, \"page\": \"1413-1432\", \"publisher\": \"Springer New York LLC\", \"title\": \"Practical Bayesian model evaluation using leave-one-out cross-validation and WAIC\", \"type\": \"article-journal\", \"volume\": \"27\"}, \"uris\": [\"http://www.mendeley.com/documents/?uuid=da705bf2-2164-3812-ad33-bea47400886c\"]}], \"mendeley\": {\"formattedCitation\": \"[16]\", \"plainTextFormattedCitation\": \"[16]\"}, \"properties\": {\"noteIndex\": 0}, \"schema\": \"https://github.com/citation-style-language/schema/raw/master/csl-citation.json\"} RNDDpzmVlsTlO}\[16\]⁠.

Results

We obtained N ≥ 4000 effective samples for each model parameter and all
models' Markov Chains (MCMC) successfully converged (Rhat = 1 for all
models' parameters).

Discussion

Conclusions

Acknowledgments

References
